Welcome back, everybody.
Like I said, this lecture is going to be one of the most important tips I can offer you for interviewing as a product manager.
As you already know, if you've been watching this
course so far - and I hope you have because, you know,
what are you doing here if not? -
product management positions are based on
making good decisions based on data.
If someone asks you what you would do for a product
in a particular situation, you never just give them
an answer without mentioning how you came
to that conclusion, and then why,
and then what are the alternatives? Ok, so
here's a real life example from my actual career.
here's a real life example from my actual care
I was once interviewing a candidate for a product
management role at an e-commerce company.
Everyone's like "Oh, you've got to interview this person.
She's great. She's got a great resume, great product manager.
She's great. She's got a great resume, great product manager."
So I'm like "Okay, I'll interview her. We'll see."
And I asked her if she thought we should develop a
native mobile app or just continue focusing on just
doing a normal mobile web site, like we had been doing.
The problem is, without even thinking, I mean,
she had like a three second delay,
she goes "Yeah, you should do a mobile app, native mobile app."
And she didn't give any other details.
So whether or not she was correct with her answer is not the issue.
And, in fact, it did even matter.
The problem is that she just gave an answer without
asking for more information to help her make the
decision, and she didn't follow it up with any reasoning
behind how she arrived at that conclusion, or
how her answer may change based on data.
So you're thinking "Well, Cole, what was the right answer?"
Look, the answer I was looking for in that situation was for her to say "Okay, I need more information to help make this decision."
How many of your customers shop for mobile devices?
What volume of traffic do you have?
What sorts of engineering knowledge does
your team have and what's your budget?
These things help make better decisions.
I would have also loved to see her follow up her
answer by telling me the reasoning behind it,
and then, most importantly, tell me what other options
were on the table besides just, you know, a mobile
web site or a native mobile app, because there
are things you can do besides that.
There's an in-between, you can do like a hybrid app,
or, yeah, there's other options, so you need to mention
these types of things when you're answering
questions. As a product manager,
there is never a single correct answer to a question.
There are always multiple possibilities, and it's your
job to synthesize information, to come up with
a good approach, and be clear about why this is the best option.
We work on data, not feelings. Just like if someone in
your company asks you why you're doing a particular
initiative or adding a certain feature, you can't just say "Because." No, you've got to say "Because the
data says this, the user interviews say this, the market
is going this way, and our competitors are doing this.
But here's the other options we considered, this one
seems to be the best approach for this reason."
That is how you think and act like a product manager.
So, in interviews, always ask clarifying questions when possible.
It shows that you're being thoughtful
and thinking like a product manager.
By the way, I don't mean to start asking them questions
if they ask you simple things, like "Where did
you go to school?" or "Where did you work before here?"
What are you going to ask them?
"Oh, what do you mean by that question?"
No, I mean, if you get to the point where they're asking
you about your opinions on their product or "What
would you do in this situation?"
There are a lot of tech companies out there,
Google, and Facebook, and Twitter, and a lot of the big
ones out there, where the entire product management
interview process is just sort of hypothetical situations.
They're like "Hey, what do you think about this?
What if this happened? What would you do?"
You've got to reason through it.
It's like showing your work on a math test in high school.
Man, I sucked at math in high school.
I don't know why I like this job though.
Anyways, that's a really big tip.
If you can internalize that, you can start thinking about
these things behind the questions, and asking
for more information to make the correct or at least most
correct decision on the answer, then you're going to go far.
I'll see you guys in the next lecture for some real
insider tips on actually getting that job.